[New] Real-time web socket tutorial rewrite (#2408)
timescale/docs: tutorials/financial-tick-data/ingest-real-time-websocket-data.md

---
title: Ingest real-time financial websocket data
excerpt: Set up a data pipeline to get data from different financial APIs
products: [cloud, mst, self_hosted]
keywords: [finance, analytics, websockets, data pipeline]
---

import CreateHypertableStocks from "versionContent/_partials/_create-hypertable-twelvedata-stocks.mdx";
import GraphOhlcv from "versionContent/_partials/_graphing-ohlcv-data.mdx";

# Ingest real-time financial websocket data

> This tutorial shows you how to ingest real-time time-series data into
> TimescaleDB using a websocket connection. The tutorial sets up a data pipeline to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial you will learn how to ingest real-time time-series data into
TimescaleDB using a websocket connection. The tutorial sets up a data pipeline to
```

Author: https://docs.timescale.com/about/latest/contribute-to-docs/#w

ingest real-time data from our data partner, [Twelve Data][twelve-data].
Twelve Data provides a number of different financial APIs, including stock,
crypto, forex, ETFs, and more. It also supports websocket connections in case
you want to update your database frequently. With websockets, you need to
connect to the server, subscribe to symbols, and you can start receiving data
in real-time during market hours.

> When you complete this tutorial, you'll have a data pipeline set
> up that ingests real-time financial data into your Timescale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After completing this tutorial, you'll will have learned how to set up a data pipeline that ingests real-time financial data into your Timescale database.
```

Author: No usage of will style guide.

This tutorial uses Python and the API
[wrapper library][twelve-wrapper] provided by Twelve Data.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have:

*   A Timescale [service and connect to the service][financial-tick-dataset].
*   Download the `.sql` file that contains the credentials such as `<HOST>`,
    `<PORT>`, `<PASSWORD>`, and other details to connect to Timescale
    service. You can also find these details in the `Connection Info` section of
    your Timescale service in the Timescale portal.

> *   Installed Python 3

Author: Link to Timescale Portal or to Python3 installation documentation?

*   Signed up for [Twelve Data][twelve-signup]. The free tier is perfect for
    this tutorial.
*   Made a note of your Twelve Data [API key](https://twelvedata.com/account/api-keys).

<Collapsible heading="Connect to the websocket server">

When you connect to the Twelve Data API through a websocket, you create a
persistent connection between your computer and the websocket server. You need
to first set up a Python environment and then pass two arguments to create a
websocket object and establish connection.

## Set up a new Python environment

> Create a new Python virtual environment for this project and activate it. All
> the packages you need to complete for this tutorial are installed in this environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by creating a new Python virtual environment for this project and activate it. All
the packages you need for this tutorial are installed in this environment.
```

Author: less wordy sentences and be imperative again style guide.

*   `symbols`

    This argument needs to be a list of stock ticker symbols (for example,
    `MSFT`) or crypto trading pairs (for example, `BTC/USD`). When using a
    websocket connection you always need to subscribe to the events you want to
    receive. You can do this by using the `symbols` argument or if your
    connection is already created you can also use the `subscribe()` function to
    get data for additional symbols.

<Procedure>

### Connecting to the websocket server

1.  Create a new Python file called `websocket_test.py` and connect to the
    Twelve Data servers using the `<YOUR_API_KEY>`:

    ```python
       import time
       from twelvedata import TDClient

        messages_history = []

        def on_event(event):
         print(event) # prints out the data record (dictionary)
         messages_history.append(event)

       td = TDClient(apikey="<YOUR_API_KEY>")
       ws = td.websocket(symbols=["BTC/USD", "ETH/USD"], on_event=on_event)
       ws.subscribe(['ETH/BTC', 'AAPL'])
       ws.connect()
       while True:
       print('messages received: ', len(messages_history))
       ws.heartbeat()
       time.sleep(10)
    ```

> 1.  Now run the Python script:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  Run the Python script:
```

    ```bash
    python websocket_test.py
    ```

> 1.  After running the script, you immediately get a response from the server

Reviewer 2: Isn't this a result statement? Can we combine it with the previous step?

Author: Done!!! these were two-part results.

    about the status of your connection:

    ```bash
    {'event': 'subscribe-status',
     'status': 'ok',
     'success': [
            {'symbol': 'BTC/USD', 'exchange': 'Coinbase Pro', 'mic_code': 'Coinbase Pro', 'country': '', 'type': 'Digital Currency'},
            {'symbol': 'ETH/USD', 'exchange': 'Huobi', 'mic_code': 'Huobi', 'country': '', 'type': 'Digital Currency'}
        ],
     'fails': None
    }
    ```

</Procedure>

When you have established a connection to the websocket server,

> wait a few seconds, and you can see actual data records, like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
wait a few seconds, and you can see data records, like this:
```

{'event': 'price', 'symbol': 'BTC/USD', 'currency_base': 'Bitcoin', 'currency_quote': 'US Dollar', 'exchange': 'Coinbase Pro', 'type': 'Digital Currency', 'timestamp': 1652438896, 'price': 30380.6, 'bid': 30380.6, 'ask': 30380.6, 'day_volume': 49157}
{'event': 'heartbeat', 'status': 'ok'}
{'event': 'price', 'symbol': 'ETH/USD', 'currency_base': 'Ethereum', 'currency_quote': 'US Dollar', 'exchange': 'Huobi', 'type': 'Digital Currency', 'timestamp': 1652438899, 'price': 2089.07, 'bid': 2089.02, 'ask': 2089.03, 'day_volume': 193818}
{'event': 'price', 'symbol': 'BTC/USD', 'currency_base': 'Bitcoin', 'currency_quote': 'US Dollar', 'exchange': 'Coinbase Pro', 'type': 'Digital Currency', 'timestamp': 1652438900, 'price': 30346.0, 'bid': 30346.0, 'ask': 30346.0, 'day_volume': 49167}
```

Each price event gives you multiple data points about the given trading pair
such as the name of the exchange, and the current price. You can also
occasionally see `heartbeat` events in the response; these events signal
the health of the connection over time.

> At this point the websocket connection works and data keeps flowing. You need
> to implement the `on_event` function so data gets ingested into TimescaleDB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this point the websocket connection is working successfully to pass data. 
To ingest the data into your Timescale service, you need to implement the 
`on_event` function.
```

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible heading="The real-time dataset">

> After the websocket connection is set up, you can use the `on_event` function
> to ingest data into the database.
> 
> A data pipeline setup that ingests real-time financial data into your Timescale.
> Stock trades are ingested in real-time Monday through Friday, typically during
> normal trading hours of the New York Stock Exchange (9:30&nbsp;AM - 4:00&nbsp;PM
> EST).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the websocket connection is set up, you can use the `on_event` function
to ingest data into the database. This is a a data pipeline that ingests real-time 
financial data into your Timescale service.

Stock trades are ingested in real-time Monday through Friday, typically during
normal trading hours of the New York Stock Exchange (9:30&nbsp;AM to 
4:00&nbsp;PM&nbsp;EST).
```

<CreateHypertableStocks />

> When you ingest data into a transactional database like TimescaleDB, it is more

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you ingest data into a transactional database like Timescale, it is more
```

efficient to insert data in batches rather than inserting data row-by-row. Using
one transaction to insert multiple rows can significantly increase the overall

> ingest capacity and speed of your TimescaleDB database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ingest capacity and speed of your Timescale database.
```

## Batching in memory

A common practice to implement batching is to store new records in memory
first, then after the batch reaches a certain size, insert all the records
from memory into the database in one transaction. The perfect batch size isn't
universal, but you can experiment with different batch sizes
(for example, 100, 1000, 10000, and so on) and see which one fits your use case better.
Using batching is a fairly common pattern when ingesting data into TimescaleDB
from Kafka, Kinesis, or websocket connections.

> Now you can implement a batching solution in Python with Psycopg2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can implement a batching solution in Python with Psycopg2.
```

> Remember to implement the ingestion logic within the `on_event` function that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can implement the ingestion logic within the `on_event` function that
```

you can then pass over to the websocket object.

This function needs to:

> 1.  Check if the item is a data item, and not some websocket metadata.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  Check if the item is a data item, and not websocket metadata.
```

1.  Adjust the data so that it fits the database schema, including the data
    types, and order of columns.
1.  Add it to the in-memory batch, which is a list in Python.

> 1.  If the batch reaches a certain size, insert the data and reset or empty the list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  If the batch reaches a certain size, insert the data, and reset or empty the list.
```

## Ingesting data in real-time

<Procedure>

1.  Update the Python script that prints out the current batch size, so you can

>     follow when data gets ingested from memory into TimescaleDB database. Use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    follow when data gets ingested from memory into your database. Use
```

    the `<HOST>`, `<PASSWORD>`, and `<PORT>` details for the Timescale service

>     where you want to ingest the data and `<YOUR_API_KEY>`from Twelve Data:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    where you want to ingest the data and your API key from Twelve Data:
```

```python

> import time
> from twelvedata import TDClient
> import psycopg2
> from psycopg2.extras import execute_values
> from datetime import datetime

Reviewer: Nit:

```suggestion
import time
import psycopg2

from twelvedata import TDClient
from psycopg2.extras import execute_values
from datetime import datetime
```

            
            # ingest data if max batch size is reached then reset the batch
            if len(self.current_batch) == self.MAX_BATCH_SIZE:
                self._insert_values(self.current_batch)
                self.insert_counter += 1
                print(f"Batch insert #{self.insert_counter}")
                self.current_batch = []
    

    def start(self, symbols):
        """Connect to the web socket server and start streaming real-time data 
        into the database.

        Args:
            symbols (list of symbols): List of stock/crypto symbols
        """
        td = TDClient(apikey="<YOUR_API_KEY")
        ws = td.websocket(on_event=self._on_event)
        ws.subscribe(symbols)
        ws.connect()
        while True:
           ws.heartbeat()
           time.sleep(10)

conn = psycopg2.connect(database="tsdb", 
                        host="<HOST>", 
                        user="tsdbadmin", 
                        password="<PASSWORD>",
                        port="<PORT>")
    
symbols = ["BTC/USD", "ETH/USD", "MSFT", "AAPL"]
websocket = WebsocketPipeline(conn)
websocket.start(symbols=symbols)
```

1.  Run the script:

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

python websocket_test.py
```

</Procedure>

You can even create separate Python scripts to start multiple websocket

> connections for different types of symbols (for example, one for stock, and
> another one for crypto prices)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
connections for different types of symbols, for example, one for stock, and
another one for cryptocurrency prices.
```

> ### Troubleshooting

Reviewer 2: @charislam Are we able to do proper troubleshooting entries for Tutorials?

If you see an error message similar to this:

```bash
2022-05-13 18:51:41,976 - ws-twelvedata - ERROR - TDWebSocket ERROR: Handshake status 200 OK

> ```

Reviewer: Should probably not be highlighted as bash.

Then check that you use a proper API key received from Twelve Data.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible heading="Query the data">

To look at OHLCV values, the most effective way is to create a continuous

> aggregate. Create a continuous aggregate to aggregate data
> for each hour. You then set the aggregate to refresh every hour, and to aggregate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
aggregate. You can create a continuous aggregate to aggregate data
for each hour, then set the aggregate to refresh every hour, and aggregate
```

    past 5 hours, by time bucket:

    ```sql
    SELECT * FROM one_hour_candle
    WHERE symbol = 'AAPL' AND bucket >= NOW() - INTERVAL '5 hours'
    ORDER BY bucket;
    ```

    The result of the query looks like this:

    ```sql
             bucket         | symbol  |  open   |  high   |   low   |  close  | day_volume
    ------------------------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+------------
     2023-05-30 08:00:00+00 | AAPL   | 176.31 | 176.31 |    176 | 176.01 |           
     2023-05-30 08:01:00+00 | AAPL   | 176.27 | 176.27 | 176.02 |  176.2 |           
     2023-05-30 08:06:00+00 | AAPL   | 176.03 | 176.04 | 175.95 |    176 |           
     2023-05-30 08:07:00+00 | AAPL   | 175.95 |    176 | 175.82 | 175.91 |           
     2023-05-30 08:08:00+00 | AAPL   | 175.92 | 176.02 |  175.8 | 176.02 |           
     2023-05-30 08:09:00+00 | AAPL   | 176.02 | 176.02 |  175.9 | 175.98 |           
     2023-05-30 08:10:00+00 | AAPL   | 175.98 | 175.98 | 175.94 | 175.94 |           
     2023-05-30 08:11:00+00 | AAPL   | 175.94 | 175.94 | 175.91 | 175.91 |           
     2023-05-30 08:12:00+00 | AAPL   |  175.9 | 175.94 |  175.9 | 175.94 |

>     ```

Reviewer: Should probably not be highlighted as SQL code since it is a result set.
